AltSwiftUI in Rakuten Travel post, added kevin-wong author (#2)
rakutentech/engineering-blog: content/post/altswiftui-travel/index.md

---
title: "Introducing AltSwiftUI in Rakuten Travel"
date: 2021-07-06T18:18:13+09:00
excerpt: "What is AltSwiftUI and how we introduced it in Rakuten Travel"
timeToRead: 4
authors:
   - Kevin Wong

> draft: true

Reviewer: please add a hero image

```yaml
hero: /post/altswiftui-trave/hero.png
```

Here are a couple of good sources of comercially usable images:

* https://unsplash.com/
* https://www.pexels.com/
* https://pixelmob.co/
* https://search.creativecommons.org/

please add license and attribution as required by the source.

---

SwiftUI, introduced by Apple in 2019, allows developers to create apps with declarative UI programming and state management, which greatly helps to improve development speed and quality. However, the framework is locked at the iOS 13 SDK, and every new improvement iteration to this new framework will push up this restriction to the latest SDK (iOS 14, and so on).

AltSwiftUI is an open source UI framework for iOS that mimics SwiftUI’s interface, introducing a single OS baseline at iOS 11 and greater flexibility because of its open source nature.

Starting to use AltSwiftUI is pretty straightforward, just import it through Cocoa pods or Swift Package Manager. If you are familiar with SwiftUI syntax, then you are good to go.

For more info see: https://github.com/rakutentech/AltSwiftUI

## A peak into code

Other than some small differences, the code structure is highly similar to that of regular SwiftUI code. Of the main things we can point out, AltSwiftUI doesn't use associated types in views, meaning that is not necessary to use opaque return types (`some View`).

![AltSwiftUI code sample](altswiftui-code-sample.png)

## Extended features

> Even though AltSwiftUI has a very similar interface and features compared to SwiftUI, because we needed more features and capabilities than originally offered in order to develop iOS apps, AltSwiftUI introduces extra functionalities.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit awkward. I would rewrite it to something like:

> AltSwiftUI interface is inspired by SwiftUI, but we needed more features and capabilities than originally offered. So we introduce extra functionalities in AltSwiftUI.

The core principles of this MV design is that developers should focus more on what they want to build, rather than how. By clearly delimiting what is part of the UI (view layer) and what is part of our business logic/data (model layer), we were able to also easily visualize our tasks and improve development efficiency.

![MV architecture](mv-architecture.png)

The view layer consists of components that interact with the user. This includes the actual view structure, its local state, navigation, gestures, animations, and so on. We define all of this in a single layer by the use of declarative programming.

The model layer consists of operations that retrieve, process and store data that are part of our business domain. At the same time, it exposes this data to the view layer as transparently as possible for a simple and smooth integration.

> The framework’s ability to integrate view state with data, including automatic updates, is what allow us to remove intermediate layers that introduce complexity and would often be the cause of bugs. Instead, the framework handles these intermediate layers without needing to add extra code.

Reviewer: The wording is a bit excessive, I'd remove some unnecessary words.

```suggestion
The framework’s ability to integrate view state with data, including automatic updates, is what allows us to remove intermediate layers of complexity and often cause bugs. Instead, the framework handles these intermediate layers without any extra code.
```

---

> These are the good and the bad from choosing this approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the advantages and drawbacks of this approach:
```

or "pros and cons" or "trade offs"

__Pros__

- Once we got used to it, our development speed increased drastically.
- We could more easily improve our app visuals and interactions.
- We could make changes on demand in AltSwiftUI depending on the app needs, without needing to worry about OS deployment version.
- It became easier to request UI improvements to other developers during peer review and testing due to simpler code.
- We could adventure with more ease of mind to prototype new and original features.

__Cons__

- Continuously work to improve AltSwiftUI on top of our regular tasks demanded effort from our part (specially at the start of the framework's development).

> - It required our developers to learn the combined features of SwiftUI and AltSwiftUI.

Reviewer: the pros & cons list should use a consistent style - some bullet points use passive voice, othors use active voice, yet others use potential forms and then there's a mix of past and present tense...

An attempt at a more consistent style:

```
__Pros__

- Our development speed increased drastically.
- We can more easily improve our app visuals and interactions.
- We don't need to worry about OS deployment version anymore.
- Code Review is easier due to simpler code, this allows us to request UI improvements to other developers during peer review.
- We can experiment quickly, create prototypes new and original features.

__Cons__

- We maintain AltSwiftUI on top of our regular tasks. That was especially demanding at the start of the framework's development.
- Our developers need to learn the combined features of SwiftUI and AltSwiftUI.
```

date: 2021-07-06T18:18:13+09:00
excerpt: "What is AltSwiftUI and how we introduced it in Rakuten Travel"
timeToRead: 4
authors:
   - Kevin Wong
hero: /post/altswiftui-travel/hero.png
draft: true
license: cc-by
---

_Background image by [Dan Roizer](https://unsplash.com/@danroizer) under the [Unsplash license](https://unsplash.com/license)_

SwiftUI, introduced by Apple in 2019, allows developers to create apps with declarative UI programming and state management, which greatly helps to improve development speed and quality. However, the framework is locked at the iOS 13 SDK, and every new improvement iteration to this new framework will push up this restriction to the latest SDK (iOS 14, and so on).

AltSwiftUI is an open source UI framework for iOS that mimics SwiftUI’s interface, introducing a single OS baseline at iOS 11 and greater flexibility because of its open source nature.

Starting to use AltSwiftUI is pretty straightforward, just import it through Cocoa pods or Swift Package Manager. If you are familiar with SwiftUI syntax, then you are good to go.

For more info see: https://github.com/rakutentech/AltSwiftUI

## A peak into code

> Other than some small differences, the code structure is highly similar to that of regular SwiftUI code. Of the main things we can point out, AltSwiftUI doesn't use associated types in views, meaning that it is not necessary to use opaque return types (`some View`).

Author: Yes that's right. The audience is mainly developers with iOS knowledge & some level of understanding of SwiftUI.

![AltSwiftUI code sample](altswiftui-code-sample.png)

## Extended features

AltSwiftUI interface is inspired by SwiftUI, but we needed more features and capabilities than originally offered, so we introduced extra functionalities in AltSwiftUI.

> For example, we needed deeper integrations with List and ScrollView interactions, so there are methods like `ScrollView.scrollOffset` and `List.onDragStarted`. There are also multiple small additions to some of the views and modifiers, and this list will keep growing in the future. To identify these features, you can read the source documentation during development or at https://altswiftui.com.

Reviewer 2: `or at https://altswiftui.com.`
I think it's better to put a good title for it instead of using a raw URL, such as:
`or at [the AltSwiftUI homepage](https://altswiftui.com)`.

## AltSwiftUI in Rakuten Travel

AltSwiftUI’s development started at the end of 2019, with the main purpose of taking on new projects while renewing the way we design software, improve the speed and quality of our development, and be more futureproof. During this journey, we tackled multiple challenges by comparing what SwiftUI originally offered with what our app needed, and the open source nature of this framework allowed us to improve it by adding features that would allow us to meet our app expectations. 

> _Rakuten Travel Premium Club_ is an invitation only app built with AltSwiftUI.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph kinda feels out of the blue.

> ### Simplified Architecture

Reviewer 2: Is the MV model a feature of SwiftUI or AltSwiftUI? I'm not an iOS developer so it might be clear to iOS developers but it isn't very clear for me.

Author: MV is a derivation of the most commonly known MVC design pattern used by most iOS developers. SwiftUI and consequently AltSwiftUI help achieving this kind of pattern.

---
title: "Introducing AltSwiftUI in Rakuten Travel"
date: 2021-07-06T18:18:13+09:00
excerpt: "What is AltSwiftUI and how we introduced it in Rakuten Travel"
timeToRead: 4
authors:
   - Kevin Wong
hero: /post/altswiftui-travel/hero.png
draft: true
license: cc-by
---

_Background image by [Dan Roizer](https://unsplash.com/@danroizer) under the [Unsplash license](https://unsplash.com/license)_

SwiftUI is a framework introduced by Apple in 2019 for development in a multitude of Apple platforms, including iOS. It allows developers to create apps with declarative UI programming and state management. Because of this, it's possible to improve development speed and quality. Yet, the framework requires iOS 13 and onwards versions. On top of that, new additions to the framework will require an even higher minimum iOS version.

When creating iOS apps, an important choice to make is which minimum iOS version this app will support. If you want to target an audience as big as possible, or if you are updating an older app which has users on older iOS versions, your development will be restricted to frameworks supporting these iOS versions.

> AltSwiftUI is an open source UI framework for iOS that mimics SwiftUI’s interface. It introduces a single OS baseline at iOS 11 and greater source flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AltSwiftUI is an open-source UI framework for iOS that mimics SwiftUI’s interface. It introduces a single OS baseline at iOS 11 and greater.
```

Starting to use AltSwiftUI is pretty straightforward, just import it through Cocoa pods or Swift Package Manager. If you are familiar with SwiftUI syntax, then you are good to go.

> For more info see: https://github.com/rakutentech/AltSwiftUI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more info see [AltSwiftUI GitHub repository](https://github.com/rakutentech/AltSwiftUI)
```

Author: My bad, fixed now

## A peak into code

Other than some small differences, the code structure is highly similar to that of regular SwiftUI code. The code below displays a scrollable view with an icon header and a list of ramens to order.

![AltSwiftUI code sample](altswiftui-code-sample.png)

> We can create AltSwiftUI views by having structs conform to the `View` protocol. Property wrappers such as @StateOject, @State, @Binding, etc. allow the view to automatically refresh when the value of these properties change. The content of the `body` computed property (as required by the `View` protocol) will define the actual UI code. Finally, the UI code is defined in a declarative way by using Swift's function builders. If you are not familiar with SwiftUI code, you should head to ![Apple's SwiftUI tutorial](https://developer.apple.com/tutorials/swiftui) for a fast start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can create AltSwiftUI views by having structs conform to the `View` protocol. Property wrappers such as `@StateOject`, `@State`, `@Binding`, etc. allow the view to automatically refresh when the value of these properties change. The content of the `body` computed property (as required by the `View` protocol) will define the actual UI code. Finally, the UI code is defined in a declarative way by using Swift's function builders. If you are not familiar with SwiftUI code, you should head to [Apple's SwiftUI tutorial](https://developer.apple.com/tutorials/swiftui) for a fast start.
```

One of the main differences between SwiftUI and AltSwiftUI is that AltSwiftUI doesn't use associated types in views. This means that it is not necessary to use opaque return types (`some View`). 

## Extended features

AltSwiftUI interface is inspired by SwiftUI, but we needed more features and capabilities than originally offered, so we introduced extra functionalities in AltSwiftUI.

> For example, we needed deeper integrations with List and ScrollView interactions, so there are methods like `ScrollView.scrollOffset` and `List.onDragStarted`. There are also multiple small additions to some of the views and modifiers, and this list will keep growing in the future. To identify these features, you can read the source documentation during development or at the ![AltSwiftUI homepage](https://altswiftui.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we needed deeper integrations with List and ScrollView interactions, so there are methods like `ScrollView.scrollOffset` and `List.onDragStarted`. There are also multiple small additions to some of the views and modifiers, and this list will keep growing in the future. To identify these features, you can read the source documentation during development or at the [AltSwiftUI homepage](https://altswiftui.com).
```

## AltSwiftUI in Rakuten Travel

AltSwiftUI’s development started at the end of 2019. Our main purpose was taking on new projects while renewing the way we design software. It also allowed us to improve the speed and quality of our development, and be more future proof.

We compared what SwiftUI offered with what our app needed while improving AltSwiftUI. The open source nature of this framework allowed us to meet our app expectations by adding new features.

> By using only AltSwiftUI to code our UI, we recently developed and published a new app titled _Rakuten Travel Premium Club_. This app is an invitation only app that provides luxurious travel destinations for booking to our costumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using only AltSwiftUI to code our UI, we recently developed and published a new app titled [_Rakuten Travel Premium Club_](https://apps.apple.com/jp/app/rakuten-travel-premium-club/id1538721536). This app is an invitation only app that provides luxurious travel destinations for booking to our costumers.
```

### Simplified Architecture

The ability to simplify our app’s architecture is a main pillar for improving our design and development. When using patterns such as MVVM or VIPER, the number of things a developer needs to worry about tend to increase. In contrast, we could transition to a MV (model view) design with AltSwiftUI at its core. 

> The core principle of this MV design is that developers should focus more on what they want to build, rather than how. We can delimit what is part of the UI (view layer) and what is part of our business logic/data (model layer). Because of this, we can better visualize our tasks and improve development efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core principle of this MV design is that developers should focus more on _what_ they want to build, rather than _how_. We can delimit what is part of the UI (view layer) and what is part of our business logic/data (model layer). Because of this, we can better visualize our tasks and improve development efficiency.
```
